---
title: Upbringing
---
Often I get asked what my CV does not reveal about myself. I tend to think that my upbringing is key to understanding who I am. 

> We are all born innocent, but not all of us are born equal.
> <footer>— <cite>Nelson Mandela</cite></footer>

While our society thinks of itself as a meritocracy, it is not. Some inherit a ladder, some are born into a pit. My parents did everything they could to avoid a negative perception. However, from the inside it was different. Before I was born my mother had wanted to abort me because I was conceived out of wedlock (kid of the 90s). Yet, through a miracle my twin brother died in the womb and the pregnancy continued (with me). When I was finally born I lacked oxygen, but again I survived - with slight disabilities I had to spent decades to overcome. 

My parents were not a happy couple. They had made a mistake and a few decades ago it was unavoidable they would marry. What was avoidable was that they did it twice again and so I grew up with the screams of my siblings (especially my sister) when they were beaten at night. Money was very tight since my mother would never find work again. When I entered school, I discovered that this meant I had no stake in the world. There were no vacations or any other events like birthdays in my life and I quickly was othered and bullied by the other kids for this reason. Since my family also did not have any friends I believed this to be the normal state of affairs and grew up very isolated and distanced from peers.

While my upbringing may have had many faults, I was told from an early age that my only escape hatch would be education. So even though my physical & social growth was stunted at times, out of necessity my mental growth far exceeded that of my peers. This resulted in me becoming the best student among a peergroup of a couple of hundred students. My teachers encouraged me to enter maths and science competitions and I thrived for the first time in my life. As my families' home turned into a moldy hoarder's mess I spent way more time at school than most students and when I graduated I had violated the school rules by taking more courses than were allowed.

Without any working role models at home I turned to my teachers for guidance on how to proceed. My teachers & later professors nudged me to try to become a scientist and so I successfully studied Psychology and later Physics to start a career in the - at the time - nascent field of neuroscience. Though, at home in my 20s crisis after crisis struck. My maternal grandparents fell ill (who had sometimes financially supported my mother), my siblings developed suicidal ideation caused by hopelessness and my brother would soon be transitioned over to a care home. My mother would fall ill due to mental conditions and the illusion finally broke on the outside. Idealistic and naive, I lend as much money as I could to my mother from my meagre earnings (work & stipend income) to support my siblings - so I would stay poor for most of my 20s never vacationing, never going for trips, probably missing out on a lot (though I do not know for sure). Instead I cracked test after test, being rewarded with stipend after stipend, believing myself on the road to success.

Finally, my grandparents would die after many years of care, my grandmother in 2012, my grandfather in 2017. I still hold them dear to this day. Now, in 2025 after my siblings (6 and 12 years of age difference) have finally become adults while I helped to overcome many traumatic events, my mother's disability has progressed so far that she cannot live on her own anymore. This leaves us with the question how to finance or organize her retirement and care without savings on her side.